# 计算材料学

## 前言

### Books:

COMPUTATIONAL MATERIALS SCIENCE

The simulation of materials microstructures and properties

Dierk Raabe, Berlin, February 1998

### 为什么学习这个学科

绝望中寻找希望？ 开个玩笑

可以理解成计算机对各个学科的一种补充

就像40岁的大官人在学CFD一样

### 

### 书里面分的人群：

the computer simulation group

the computer maintenance and programming group

the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University is gratefully acknowledged



### People 针对的人群:  

### 段落简评

### Chapter 1

**大杂烩**

The scientific branch that has matured within this interdisciplinary field, bringing together approaches from materials science, physics, computer science, mathematics, chemistry, and mechanical engineering, is often referred to as “computational materials science”.

**计算机模拟材料应该满足的3个条件**

Advanced microstructure simulations should meet three major requirements. First, they should enable one to use, or even derive, advanced path-independent microstructure– property relations with quantitative validity. Second, they should provide insight into the underlying thermodynamic and path-dependent physical principles that govern the com- plex nature of microstructure evolution at the various space and time scales. Third, they should allow one, at least in certain cases, to replace and complement experimentation by simulation.

**工程层面应该满足的条件和针对工程发现的模拟方法**

****

In engineering terms microstructure simulations should thus provide a convenient means of predicting and understanding material properties and microstructure evolution for technical applications under conditions that have not yet been studied or that are not amenable to experiments. To fulfill these requirements and at the same time to optimize the predictive power of models, the various numerical methods are increasingly complemented by the concept of integrated modeling and simulation (Gottstein 1996). This term characterizes the coupling of computer codes with the aim of bridging the scale discrepancies between different simulation levels. This can be achieved by either simultaneous integration (direct integration) or sequential integration (Raabe 1997). The first notion means that various interacting simulation codes, which may use different numerical techniques, are employed simultaneously in one computer experiment. The second term describes the alternative method of an adequate parameter-transfer between simulations that are used sequentially.



**选择合适的simulation techniques 进行模拟:**

**P12**

Scales: What are the physical time and length scales of the phenomenon? Microstructure: Is it necessary to incorporate microstructure?
 Analytical solution: Is it possible to solve the problem analytically?
 Experimental data: Are experimental data available to check the predictions? Independent variables: Which variables should serve as independent variables? Dependent variables: Which variables should serve as dependent variables?
 Model approach: Should a first-principles, phenomenological, or empirical model ap-

proach be used?
 Model parameters: Do the required parameters have any physical meaning and are

corresponding experimental or theoretical data available?
 Boundary conditions: Which boundary- and initial-value conditions are adequate? Realistic conditions: Are particular boundary- and initial-value conditions known? Discretization: What degree of spatial and temporal discretization is required? Simulation scale: Which simulation method is suited for the scale addressed?
 Error tolerance What degree of precision is required? Which error can be tolerated? Deterministic/stochastic: Is the phenomenon deterministic or stochastic? Atomistic/continuum: Should an atomistic or continuum model be used? Combination of scales: Is it required to combine various space and/or time scales? Integrated simulation: What is the appropriate integrated simulation method to bridge

the various space and/or time scales?
 Simulation code: Are existing simulation codes available?
 Comparison: Were the chosen simulation methods quantitatively compared with expe-

riments, analytical solutions, and/or competitive numerical approaches? Programing language: Which programing language, compiler, commercially available

solver, etc. should be used?
 Speed: Which is the fastest simulation method?
 Price: Which is the cheapest simulation method?
 Computer power: How much computer power is available for the simulation? Data analysis: What methods must be used to analyze and present the data?

### Chapter 2

Modeling and Simulation in Materials Science 

#### 一些专业术语 notions



#### **The Basic Idea behind Modeling一些奇怪的想法**



Rosenblueth and Wiener 1945

**针对材料科学与工程，没有统一的抽象语言描述**

However, it must be underlined that there exists no such thing as a unified exact method of deriving models. This applies particularly for the materials sciences, where one deals with a large variety of scales and mechanisms.



#### State Variables or Dependent Variables



**Ingredients required in formulating mathematical models in materials science.**

1. Independent variables, e.g. time and space.

2. State variables, i.e. intensive and extensive or implicit and explicit dependent

   variables, e.g. temperature, dislocation density, displacement, or concentration.

3. Kinematic equations, i.e. functions that describe the coordinate changes of mass points without considering the actual forces, e.g. equations for computing strain

   and rotation from displacement gradients under consideration of constraints.

4. State equations, i.e. path-independent functions that describe the actual state of

   the material in terms of the values of the dependent variables.

5. Evolution equations, i.e. path-dependent functions that describe the evolution of

   microstructure in terms of the change in the values of the dependent variables.

6. Physical parameters.

7. Boundary- and initial-value conditions.

8. Numerical algorithms or analytical methods to solve the framework set up by 1–7.



#### 一些模型的类别

Spatial Scale

Spatial Dimension

Descriptive Character

Path-Dependence

### Chapter 3 Fundamentals and Solution of Differential Equations

#### Differential Equations



#### Crank–Nicholson Method



### Chapter 4 Fundamentals

